Docs change for Metadata API to support components capabilities (#2511)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/api/metadata_api.md

---
type: docs

> title: "Sidecar Metadata API reference"

Reviewer: No real need to add sidecar here, since all the API are for the sidecar. If need this can be added in an overview of the API section (which does not exist currently)
```suggestion
title: "Metadata API reference"
```

linkTitle: "Metadata API"
description: "Detailed documentation on the Metadata API"
weight: 800
---

> Dapr has a metadata API that returns information about the sidecar allowing runtime discoverability. The metadata endpoint returns among other things, a list of the components loaded and the activated actors (if present). Each loaded components also has information about supported features in the form of component's capabilites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapr has a metadata API that returns information about the sidecar allowing runtime discoverability. The metadata endpoint returns a list of the components loaded, the activated actors (if present) and attributes with information attached. 
```

> These features are only available for State store, Pub/Sub and Binding components. For example, below table shows building blocks and their capabilites. This list might grow in future and only represents the current supported their capabilites of loaded components - 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Components
Each loaded component provides its name, type and version and also information about supported features in the form of component capabilities. 

These features are available for the [state store]({{< ref supported-state-stores.md >}}), [pub/sub]({{< ref supported-pubsub.md >}}) and [binding]({{< ref supported-bindings.md >}}) component types. The table  below shows the component type and the list of capabilities for a given version. This list might grow in future and only represents the capabilities of the loaded components.
```

Question: I put here ***for a given version*** . Is this correct and if not can this list changes between component versions?

Author: yes, We should put "for a given version" here.
A new version of any component means it has to be registered as a new component(example redis/v2), so I believe features and properties might change between different versions.

> Building Block | Supported capabilites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Component type | Capabilities
```

---------------| ------------

> State Store    | Etag, Transcation, Actor, Query API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
State Store    | ETAG, TRANSACTION, ACTOR, QUERY_API
```

Pub/Sub        | TTL
Binding        | INPUT_BINDING, OUTPUT_BINDING

> The Dapr metadata API also allows you to store additional information in the format of key-value pairs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Attributes

The metadata API allows you to store additional attribute information in the format of key-value pairs. These are ephemeral in-memory and are not persisted if a sidecar is reloaded. This information should be added at the time of a sidecar creation, for example, after the application has started. 
```

Reviewer: Can you check that label information (as I have put here) is in fact in-memory only? Is this true statement above ^^^

Author: yes, it is in-memory only

## Get the Dapr sidecar information

Gets the Dapr sidecar information provided by the Metadata Endpoint.

### Usecase:

> The Get Metadata API can be used for discovering different capabilities supported by loaded components. It can also help Dapr operators in determining which components to provision, for required features/capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Get Metadata API can be used for discovering different capabilities supported by loaded components. It can help operators in determining which components to provision, for required capabilities.
```

weight: 800
---

Dapr has a metadata API that returns information about the sidecar allowing runtime discoverability. The metadata endpoint returns a list of the components loaded, the activated actors (if present) and attributes with information attached.

## Components
Each loaded component provides its name, type and version and also information about supported features in the form of component capabilities. 

> These features are available for the [state store]({{< ref supported-state-stores.md >}}), [pub/sub]({{< ref supported-pubsub.md >}}) and [binding]({{< ref supported-bindings.md >}}) component types. The table  below shows the component type and the list of capabilities for a given version. This list might grow in future and only represents the capabilities of the loaded components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These features are available for the [state store]({{< ref supported-state-stores.md >}}), [pub/sub]({{< ref supported-pubsub.md >}}) and [binding]({{< ref supported-bindings.md >}}) component types. The table below shows the component type and the list of capabilities for a given version. This list might grow in future and only represents the capabilities of the loaded components.
```

name    | string | Name of the component.
type    | string | Component type.
version | string | Component version.

> capabilities | array | Supported capabilities by components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
capabilities | array | Supported capabilities for this component type and version. 
```

        {
            "name":"pubsub",
            "type":"pubsub.redis",

>             "version":"",

Reviewer: Every component has a version, so this cannot be blank, correct?

Author: Added the current version

            "capabilities": [""]
        },
        {
            "name":"statestore",
            "type":"state.redis",

>             "version":"",

Reviewer: Every component has a version, so this cannot be blank, correct?

> Adds a custom attribute to the Dapr sidecar information stored by the Metadata Endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds a custom label to the Dapr sidecar information stored by the Metadata endpoint.
```

### Usecase:

> This Dapr metatada endpoint, is for instance being used by the Dapr CLI when running dapr in standalone mode to store the PID of the process hosting the sidecar and the command used to run the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The metadata endpoint is, for example, used by the Dapr CLI when running dapr in self hosted mode to store the PID of the process hosting the sidecar and store the command used to run the application.  Applications can also add attributes as keys after startup.
```

        {
            "name":"pubsub",
            "type":"pubsub.redis",

>             "version":"",

Reviewer: Every component has a version, so this cannot be blank, correct?

            "capabilities": [""]
        },
        {
            "name":"statestore",
            "type":"state.redis",

>             "version":"",

Reviewer: Every component has a version, so this cannot be blank, correct?
